It was overall a steep learning curve, as the concepts still do not fully sink in after one week of missing sleep over it. Neither OWL not Protege is made to be intuitive, and in my opinion, wider adoption of this wonderful thing we are doing will require much better interfaces. Here is my progress and some things I learned:

Athough this happened a bit late due to hurrying for the tasks at hand, discovering how to customize my Protege tabs and workspace has been really helpful. During this assignment, the best setting was to put default and inferred panes side by side.

It took me a good long few hours to be able to do my first inference. And it waks surprising to see that this only happened after I carefully defined all features of all properties. Remembering the inference rules regarding to properties, I learned to check the properties when things seemed to be wrong with no obvious reason.

I lost  few hours on an inference error, which was due to a cardinality requirement that was not being met no matter what. I later realized, almost by accident, that two individuals were not being seen as different entities (thanks/because of the no unique names assumption and open open world assumption). After differentiating these two individuals manually, the cardinality restriction worked like a charm, because now finally there were two individuals in the class I specified! After all this pain, I started to doubt whether open world assumption is simply laziness/lack of means to do a more clever reasoner/language; and whether no unique names assumption is simply bad design.Luckily, I found a "differentiate all individuals" option under Edit menu. Now I appreciate the importance of this operation. 

Another error a few hours ago than this one was caused by a similar issue: after making my top-level classes disjoint, I started to get a lot of errors. Although this was frustrating in the beginning, it turned out to be a very good way to root out the inconsistencies in the ontology. As the classes that should be perfectly distinct was not able to separate, I had to check properties, and indeed, realized that a name change, together with two very similar entities that belonged to different classes was the culprit: "Conference" as institute, and "Conference"(proceedings) as a publication. I will be extra careful around such similar entities in future, and will update the occurences of one of them carefully if the second one is created much later (which was the case). Also, the "Disjoin all siblings" option in the Edit menu  —once again— is a great way to check if everything is OK and for fortifying my ontology.

In case of errors, asking for the explanation to the Protege was unexpectedly helpful. I also used the Protege debugger plugin for extra assistance.

Overall, it was a good and tiring adventure with many moments of frustration. It is a shame that OWL and Protege is so user-hostile, as popularity of linked data and similar technologies could have been increasing much more rapidly if they were more accessible. Perhaps that's something I can contribute towards as a designer/programmer.